Have you ever heard someone say,
I'm not religious, but I am spiritual?
Or, I don't need to belong to a religion.
I worship God in my own way.
Many people believe that they don't need to be associated
with a specific religious organization
and that it's good enough simply
to have a personal relationship with God.
It's not surprising that they feel that way.
Many religious organizations have promoted false worship.
They've mistreated their followers
or demanded large sums of money from them
and tolerated or even promoted conduct
that the Bible condemns.
Of course, it's the fruitage of those organizations
that's bad, not the fact that they're organized.
But we might still ask,
does Jehovah want his people to be organized?
What does his word say?
The Bible reveals that the early Christians were organized.
Consider what's recorded at Acts chapter 15,
an issue arose,
an issue involving doctrine or belief
that caused disagreement among those in the congregation.
How would they settle that issue?
Did they conclude that it was enough for each Christian
to have his own relationship with God
and for each person to believe what he personally wanted?
No, that would have divided the young Christian congregation,
which at this point was less than 20 years old.
At Acts 15 verse 2, we read,
but after quite a bit of dissension
and disputing by Paul and Barnabas with them,
it was arranged for Paul, Barnabas,
and some of the others to go up to the apostles
and elders in Jerusalem regarding this issue.
The apostles and elders in Jerusalem
made a decision that resolved the issue.
Thereafter, they made their decision known to the congregations.
This helped to restore peace and unity.
That wasn't an exceptional case.
Sometime later, the Apostle Paul
and Timothy visited the congregations.
What did they accomplish?
Acts 16 verse 4 says,
as they traveled on through the cities,
they would deliver to them for observance,
the decrees that had been decided on by the apostles
and the elders who were in Jerusalem.
The apostles and elders in Jerusalem
consistently provided spiritual food,
direction, and practical help for God's people
in the first century.
They acted as a governing body.
What was the result of such organization?
Note the next verse.
It says,
then indeed, the congregations continued
to be made firm in the faith
and to increase in number day by day.
That organization in the first century
helped the early Christians to be united,
productive, and happy.
In like manner, Jehovah's people today are organized.
This reflects Jehovah's personality.
1 Corinthians chapter 14 verses 33 and 40 says in part,
God is a God not of disorder,
but of peace.
Let all things take place decently
and by arrangement.
Think about it.
Organization really helps us to fulfill
Jehovah's requirements for true worship.
Consider five examples.
First, we must be organized to meet together for worship.
How could we do so if we didn't know one another?
Didn't have designated places and times to gather together
and didn't have a scheduled program for each meeting?
Second, we must be organized to be united in belief.
All of us receive the same instruction
at congregation meetings,
assemblies, and conventions,
and we're helped to understand the scriptures
through Bible-based publications and videos.
These provisions require organization,
and they help us to worship unitedly
and as 1 Corinthians 1 verse 10 councils us
to speak in agreement.
Third, we must be organized to form
a worldwide brotherhood.
1 Peter chapter 2 verse 17 reminds us
that we belong to an association of brothers.
If we weren't organized,
how could we even identify those
who are truly part of our spiritual family?
Fourth, we must be organized to preach the good news
to people of different nations, tribes, and languages.
How could we possibly declare the kingdom message thoroughly
and effectively if we weren't associated with an organization?
Fifth, we must be organized to provide disaster relief.
Just as the early Christians had an arrangement
to supply financial aid to their needy brothers
and sisters in other lands,
so we are organized to help our brothers and sisters
as soon as possible after a disaster,
disease outbreak, or other emergency.
As was the case in the first century,
the governing body today provides spiritual food,
direction, and practical help for God's people around the world.
Jesus has appointed that governing body
to be the faithful and discreet slave.
How grateful we are that Jehovah through our leader Jesus Christ
has organized us so that we can do God's will
as a united brotherhood.